NAS-103956 add instructions for reset data/passwords for SED. (#1651)
freenas/freenas-docs: userguide/system.rst

       LockOnReset:     1

.. index:: SED, SED Password
.. _Managing SED Password and Data:

Managing SED Passwords and Data
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This section contains command line instructions to manage SED
passwords and data. The command used is
`sedutil-cli(8) <https://www.mankier.com/8/sedutil-cli>`__. Most
SEDs are TCG-E (Enterprise) or TCG-Opal
(`Opal v2.0 <https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/wp-content/uploads/TCG_Storage-Opal_SSC_v2.01_rev1.00.pdf>`__).
Commands are different for the different drive types, so the first
step is identifying which type is being used.

.. warning:: These commands can be destructive to data and passwords.
   Keep backups and use the commands with
   caution.

> Drive SED version can be checked on a single drive with this command:

Reviewer: This can be like the second version:
```suggestion
Check SED version on a single drive, :literal:`/dev/da0` in this example:
```

.. code-block:: none

   root@truenas:~ # sedutil-cli --isValidSED /dev/da0
   /dev/da0 SED --E--- Micron_5N/A U402

All connected disks can be checked at once:

.. code-block:: none

   root@truenas:~ # sedutil-cli --scan
   Scanning for Opal compliant disks
   /dev/ada0 No 32GB SATA Flash Drive SFDK003L
   /dev/ada1 No 32GB SATA Flash Drive SFDK003L
   /dev/da0 E Micron_5N/A U402
   /dev/da1 E Micron_5N/A U402
   /dev/da12 E SEAGATE XS3840TE70014 0103
   /dev/da13 E SEAGATE XS3840TE70014 0103
   /dev/da14 E SEAGATE XS3840TE70014 0103
   /dev/da2 E Micron_5N/A U402
   /dev/da3 E Micron_5N/A U402
   /dev/da4 E Micron_5N/A U402
   /dev/da5 E Micron_5N/A U402
   /dev/da6 E Micron_5N/A U402
   /dev/da9 E Micron_5N/A U402
   No more disks present ending scan
   root@truenas:~ #

> 

Reviewer: Did something happen to the explanation of what the output means?

       LockOnReset:     1

.. index:: SED, SED Password
.. _Managing SED Password and Data:

> Managing SED Password and Data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Managing SED Passwords and Data
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This section contains command line instructions to manage SED
passwords and data. The command used is
`sedutil-cli(8) <https://www.mankier.com/8/sedutil-cli>`__. Most

> SEDs are TCG-E (Enterprise) or TCG-Opal

Reviewer: Not clear why this sentence is here. As the reader, why do I need to know this?  *Do* I need to know this?

Author: I would say they need to know this because there are different instructions for each.

Reviewer: Okay, so it should explain that after that sentence.
`Commands are different for the different drive types, so the first step is identifying which type is being used.`

(`Opal v2.0 <https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/wp-content/uploads/TCG_Storage-Opal_SSC_v2.01_rev1.00.pdf>`__).

> .. warning:: These commands can be descructive to data and passwords.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. warning:: These commands can be destructive to data and passwords.
```

>    Take necessary data backup procedures and use the commands with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Keep backups and use the commands with
```

   caution.

> Drives can be checked individually to determine if it is a SED and what

Reviewer: Too many things in one sentence.  Split out the part about individual or batch:
`Drive SED version can be checked on a single drive with this command:`
`All connected disks (just SED?) can be checked at once:`

> variant of SED it is with this comand:

Reviewer: Typo.

.. code-block:: none

>    root@tn01b:~ # sedutil-cli --isValidSED /dev/da0

Reviewer: Probably clearer to replace the prompt with just `root@truenas`.

   /dev/da0 SED --E--- Micron_5N/A U402

To check all disks at once, run this command:

.. code-block:: none

   root@tn01b:~ # sedutil-cli --scan
   Scanning for Opal compliant disks
   /dev/ada0 No 32GB SATA Flash Drive SFDK003L
   /dev/ada1 No 32GB SATA Flash Drive SFDK003L
   /dev/da0 E Micron_5N/A U402
   /dev/da1 E Micron_5N/A U402
   /dev/da12 E SEAGATE XS3840TE70014 0103
   /dev/da13 E SEAGATE XS3840TE70014 0103
   /dev/da14 E SEAGATE XS3840TE70014 0103
   /dev/da2 E Micron_5N/A U402
   /dev/da3 E Micron_5N/A U402
   /dev/da4 E Micron_5N/A U402
   /dev/da5 E Micron_5N/A U402
   /dev/da6 E Micron_5N/A U402
   /dev/da9 E Micron_5N/A U402
   No more disks present ending scan
   root@tn01b:~ #

> In the commands above, "E" represents that it is a TCG-E (Enterprise)

Reviewer: This would be easier to read either as a table.
 Table formatting will have to be fixed, since
Github isn't helping.
```
The value in the second column of output indicates the type of SED:

+-------------------------------------+
| :literal:`E`  | TCG-E (Enterprise) |
| :literal:`2`  | TCG-Opal (Opal v2.0) |
| :literal:`No` | Not a SED |
+-------------------------------------+
```

SED. If the drive is TCG-Opal (Opal v2.0), it has a "2" next to it. A
drive that is not a SED has a "No" next to it.

> If the drive is **TCG-Opal**:

Reviewer: This should be a section to make it clear that all of the TCG-Opal commands are together.  Should TCG-E come first because it's more likely?

Reset the password without losing data:
:samp:`sedutil-cli --revertNoErase {oldpassword} /dev/{device}`

Use **both** of these commands to change the password without
destroying data:

| :samp:`sedutil-cli --setSIDPassword {oldpassword} {newpassword} /dev/{device}`
| :samp:`sedutil-cli --setPassword {oldpassword} Admin1 {newpassword} /dev/{device}`

Wipe data and reset password to default MSID:
:samp:`sedutil-cli --revertPer {oldpassword} /dev/{device}`

Wipe data and reset password using the PSID:
:samp:`sedutil-cli --yesIreallywanttoERASEALLmydatausingthePSID {PSINODASHED} /dev/{device}`
where *PSINODASHED* is the PSID located on the pysical drive with no
dashes (:literal:`-`).

> If the drive is **TCG-E**:

Reviewer: TCG-E section.
